hey what up this video is inspired in
the moment by one of my fellow youtube
vegans digital vegan activists what if
you want to say named Brianna jackfruits
and Brianna put up a video reflecting on
her own largely negative experiences of
the educational system how was the
younger person showed a lot of positive
motivation it was a bit of a
perfectionist and why she decided not to
go to university maybe Im even painting
it in too bleak a color palette with
that very brief description because it's
it's not a downbeat video if anything
she's very up being positive of her life
right now and you know I really I'm so
happy for Brianna she seems to have
really turned her life around in some
profound way and she's now talking
openly about her mental illness in the
past tense which is great and very happy
for her and you know I I think anyone
who's watched her videos on and off of
the exam I'm not a regular viewer of her
channel can see a tremendous contrast in
her character in the way she construes
her sentences in the way one thought
leads to another it really seems like
she's had a tremendously positive
personal transformation and that's what
she says about herself too so I'm happy
for that she's turned her life around
and you know mental illness itself is
quite mysterious it's difficult to talk
about with any precision but in a lot of
ways the deeper mystery is what we mean
by mental health is what we mean by
sanity is what we you know in this
context she's apparently recovered from
serious mental illness and that's even
you know more difficult to describe so
shout-out to brand I'm really half of
her and some people in the fastpass
thought that bran and I hate each other
we just we just don't know each other
we're just complete strangers there's no
contact between us um but anyway you
know as with all these people I really
hope that in future now that she's
overcome some of those issues she could
make more and more of a positive
contribution to this movement that we
call veganism Hey hahaha I hope uh you
know but all of us have got to
contribute in their own ways and I've
talked about that a lot in earlier
videos not everyone is going to have the
same message to contribute and not
everyone is going to employ the same
modes of activism so branna whatever you
do it next I really do wish you the best
and I'm happy for you with the progress
you've made though that haven't been
said topic of a video
University and I want to make a reply
video her her video was basically titled
why she did it drop out of university so
I want to make a video talking about why
I did not drop out of university um I
have been to university well i was gonna
submit university twice actually a huge
part of my life has been spent in
universities and I guess I could count
at least three times when I was living
on a university campus and enrolled in
university my first diplomas from the
University of Toronto and I went back
and got a second diploma from the
University of Victoria which I had not
collected yet technically i'm currently
in china studying pursuant to and as
part of that diploma and then when i go
back to you Vic I can pretty much pick
up that diploma as soon as I go back to
Canada that's simplifying somewhat but
let's let's leave the details aside on
both occasions the quality of education
I received from within the Canadian
system was so bad was so terrible that I
didn't just consider dropping out I
actively wanted to drop out I was
actively pursuing and investigating
options alternatives stink university so
that I could drop out and I didn't find
any oh now different people react to
this in different ways it's normally
especially difficult for me to talk to
people with my university experience if
for example they come from Germany um if
they come from France if they come from
another western country would they
presume that our education system in
Canada is the same as their own or where
they presume that what they've seen in
American movies is true of the Canadian
education system or even that it's true
with the American education system
because let's face it Hollywood does not
give you the most you know accurate
portrayal of how I the education system
works um my experience at University
tronto was absolutely abysmal University
on with such a big University that of
course what I have to say isn't true
about departments I wouldn't be true or
for example Medical Sciences you had no
contact with it wouldn't be true of
computer programming totally different
department might as well be a totally
different University but I did have
experience with many different
departments at that University and I now
have experience with many different
universities over many years so I know
that some of my negative experience
they're really do reflect endemic
problems with the system if that's how
you want to talk about it and other
problems of course just reflect
particular people's personalities but a
university is not an anarchist utopia
it's very much a hierarchical top-down
organization some people give commands
other people follow them some people
make decisions other people live with
consequence those decisions so in as
much as there were particular bad apples
in the system that's also a feature that
everyone has to deal with whether you're
in America or England or any similar
Western english-language tradition of
how university works one person can
destroy a department for decades can
destroy the reputation the whole
university for several years or what
have you so it's a top-down system and
the other peculiar thing about my
experience was that I could see it from
the professor's perspective because even
when I was University of Toronto was a
young student I was a normal you know
kid a great many of the professor's you
talk to me were if anything somewhat
desperate to become friends with me to
divulge to me what the problems were
that they experienced in running the
University from their own perspective
they were if anything trying to make me
a sympathetic a lie there's and to
explain what the problems were they were
encountering so in as much as I might
have had a perspective that a given
course was a disaster or given
department or program was a disaster
very often the professor's themselves
were eager to explain to me look this
course is bad for this reason here's the
guy made the decision here was the
planning that went to it here were the
factors we considered they were very
often wanting to give me the backstory
for was wrong with it and now when I
were turning University at University of
Victoria that was even more true because
I wasn't older I was a more mature
student and many but that already
happened back at University anto back in
1998 and when I was at University of
Victoria even more so they were
professors who were really eager to
disclose to me what the systemic
problems were what they were struggling
with in trying to do a decent job and
delivering education to people including
myself uh
with all that Evan said sympathy only
goes so far when you're in a
hierarchical relationship like that the
bottom line is they're responsible for
their decisions they're responsible for
the consequence of their decisions and
people like me really suffer because the
consequence their decisions and in both
universities have already mentioned the
context that was in the particular
Department picture program was so bad
was so terrible that I was looking for
any way out so going to come back to
that point just one second but you know
years ago I'm now divorced but years ago
I remember sitting with my wife and
we're watching a news item a television
news item and it was about a controversy
at University where one student beat up
another student and because it was
recorded on camera like someone had a
cellphone and uploaded to the Internet
there was then this question of if the
student would be expelled or go to
prison or both and you know was in
general a news item reflecting on how
you know these kinds of cameras have
changed the game have changed the ethics
and politics of these kinds of these
kinds of issues and I think some people
were looking at this in questioning well
in the past didn't University students
just kind of beat each other up and
forget about it did it always have these
kinds of terrible consequences of
kicking people at a university and what
have you but number I looked at it I was
sitting there watching the peace with my
wife and you know from the video you
really did get a sense of the
personality of the guy who assaulted
this other person who started this fist
tight and so on and I remember i said to
her i said they're asking the wrong
questions 30 years ago that guy would
have never gone to university and it was
University in Canada I said a guy like
that 30 years ago you can see his whole
attitude in this fight he doesn't have
an interest in academic study you just
think about he has no desire to become
an academic this is not someone who
aspires to this he obviously someone
who's been cornered to go into
university because he feels he needs it
to get a job um and you know not in a
perfect world in the very imperfect
world we had a few decades ago somebody
like that would have had all kinds of
opportunities outside of university that
didn't require a BA that didn't require
an MA and he wouldn't have had to fit
himself into this context that he's
uncomfortable with and the Vanek dote um
the truth is that I myself even though
many professors praised me as brilliant
I've had professors
say to me at length that they believe
that was a genius like sit down with me
and talk to me like this is something
they've got explained to me for my own
good I've had professors you know not
just sometimes praised my work and son
it spreads my character and talk to me
about my future take the time out of
their day to try to advise me on my
future career I appreciate all that but
the bottom line is my experience the
university both on both occasions on
both universities actually there's a I
can make this video longer tied with a
third university I was involved in but
we're leaving that out we're going to
pretend they're only two universities
involved here was so terrible was so
uniformly unforgivably negative that on
both occasions I was applying for jobs
outside of the university including like
literally working in a coal mine one of
them was a gold mine I was applying for
all kinds of blue-collar jobs the type
of jobs my grandparents actually did and
also more broadly that were commonly
available my grandparents generation and
I can say to you honestly if just one of
those jobs had come through for me I
would have dropped out of university to
pursue that job something else i'm on
the record for that I've already
discussed the channel while I was at
University of Victoria I applied to join
the Canadian military I went through the
whole testing process and it's a funny
story tell it the funny way right and I
can tell you again if the Canadian
military were as well organised as the
US military because they are very well
organized at recruitment at you know
getting you from the recruiters office
to basic training in 24 hours they're
very proud of that I would have shipped
out to Afghanistan rather than stay in
that university program it was that bad
so even for someone like me someone who
identifies as a bookish intellectual
someone who studied so many languages
someone who's so passionate about
history and politics if I had had any
alternative I would have dropped out of
university because the quality of
education available to me was absolutely
abysmal II terrible and I gotta wrap up
this video now for the sake of it if you
think that someone with my interests
interest in ethics philosophy ecology
politics if you think those interests
are rewarded in a Canadian university
context you may be watching this in
Russia
you may be watching this in Germany you
may be watching this right here in China
where I now live I know what may be hard
for you to relate to but no my report it
at all um I really found myself again
and again in university context where
just the fact that I existed was an
unwanted challenge to the whole system
no matter how polite i was about it when
i was involved in put his studies the
fact that i would talk about slavery
within buddhist studies was an unwanted
challenge to the whole system within
asian studies the fact that i would talk
about politics in the way that i do and
you see it on this channel doesn't
matter a plant was an unwanted challenge
to the whole system there were
departments of asian studies that tell
you straight up all they talk about is
poetry literature movies and they don't
want to admit that politics even exists
so it's completely absurd if you watch
this channel you may think my interests
are mainstream but actually my
experience subjectively and personally
has been that again and again I've been
an unwanted challenge to the institution
it was a part of and if there had been
any alternative if I curl worked in the
coal mine if I could have signed up and
gone to Afghanistan as bleak terrible
i'm not not talking about a dream job as
terrible as those options were um all
those jobs i applied for and in well was
a universe toronto i applied to become a
paramedic there's so many jobs i mean at
while i was at uvic i probably applied
for a hundred different jobs including
internships as well as jobs well over
the university of toronto i don't want
to count but including what was the
universe dry apply to just become a
waiter like I applied for all I applied
become a security guard i pled become a
security guard and it's not worth
describing i applied for really low
level jobs and i applied to enter a
trade school to become a bricklayer i I
did the application okay if any of that
have been possible for me if any of that
have worked out for me I would have
dropped out of university because that's
how terrible the quality of education
was for me despite the fact that I am as
many of my universe professors flat
flattered me I am a naturally gifted
writer researching and writing essays is
very easy for me and in many ways I'm
intellectually inclined so that's what
it's like growing up in Canada in 21st
century
and for any fuel watching this think of
relate my arcos at you because there are
tons of people going through the same
struggle